Edwin Yarwick, CEO of Yarwick-Pryor, stood at the top of the world. His company was making money hand over fist, and his beautiful young wife Sofia was about to deliver their first child, Julian. Edwin Yarwick's life would soon be turned upside down, however. His young wife was killed in a freak automobile accident, and all the doctors agreed that his son Julian would not live very long. In addition to the normal complications and issues from being premature, there was something dreadfully wrong with the boy. Edwin was beside himself and poured ever-larger sums of money into the child's care. It was only his enormous wealth that kept Julian alive at all, but that too seemed insufficient to do more than buy time.

Eventually, Edwin learned of a young doctor who specialized in more unusual applications of science, a man by the name of Dr. Falls. He tasked Falls with finding a solution to his son's predicament and promised him whatever he needed to accomplish it. Dr. Falls was able to stabilize the boy by exposing him to temperatures far too low for a normal infant to survive. At temperatures where the child should suffer frostbite, he seemed instead seemed perfectly healthy, laughing as crystalline ice shapes formed on his skin. Dr. Falls discovered a number of genetic irregularities that affected temperature regulation, and worked to develop a way to keep little baby Arctis -- as Falls and his staff would come to call him -- healthy outside of constantly-monitored lab conditions.

Meanwhile, Edwin's obsession with his son's care was causing problems at Yarwick-Pryor. His co-founder, Wesley Pryor, encouraged Edwin to take time off to be with his son and leave the business in someone else's hands for a time, but Edwin refused, fearing that any loss of income would spell doom for his son. While they had been friends from childhood, their relationship became increasingly tense. Edwin felt that Wesley should understand his position, but Wesley felt that Edwin had an obligation to him and the company, as well as to young Julian, to step back from day-to-day operations, as he was becoming increasingly erratic. As investors became more and more nervous, the board looked for a way to remove Edwin. Ultimately, Wesley backed their play, after again failing to get through to Edwin.

Overnight, Edwin's position in the company and his wealth were destroyed. Wesley set up a fund for Julian's health and secured a house and some land for Edwin, but Edwin's time as a pillar of the community had ended suddenly and unceremoniously. While Wesley's fund for Julian was generous, it failed to fully address the enormous expenses required to keep Julian alive, so Dr. Falls sought other sources of revenue. He was able to license some of the technology he had developed treating Julian to help cover the difference.

Dr. Falls ultimately developed a serum that could help Julian function in normal temperatures for a time, and he found that as the boy grew stronger, he needed the serum less and less. Soon he was able to survive comfortably at room temperature. When he was 5 years old, he managed his first summer outdoors. After that summer, he was able to live as a normal child, with some supervision. A few oddities remained, like the fact the boy never got cold, or that ice never melted in Julian's hands, but nothing noteworthy, until that winter, when Julian experienced his first snowfall. The boy laughed and laughed as the falling snowflakes froze to his pale skin. His platinum blond hair was so caked with snow that it was difficult to tell them apart. His skin was so cold that it hurt Edwin to touch him, but the boy laughed and waded through the snowbanks all the same. Edwin showed him how to build a snowman, and Julian learned quickly. The next day their yard was filled with snowmen and tiny snow sculptures, malformed, but encased in ice. Within a few years, Edwin saw Julian punch his hand into the fallen snow and pull out a sword made of ice. When Edwin brought Julian to Dr. Falls, Falls determined that Julian could manipulate the crystallization of water to form complex shapes. As he got older, he learned to crystallize the water from the air, when it was cold enough.

Growing up, Julian heard many versions of the story about how Yarwick-Pryor became Pryor Industries, and how his father lost everything but Julian. He had been raised to believe that Wesley Pryor had exploited and stolen his father's legacy. When he was old enough, he confronted Wesley, but found a far more approachable, relatable, and complicated man than his father's stories suggested.

In some, the addition of nuance to simpler concepts of Right and Wrong might have been confusing or disheartening, but Julian never lost sight of his ideals and their importance, even though he could never fully say who had been right or wrong at Yarwick-Pryor. If anything, that confusion taught him the importance of seeking out truth and justice in the hidden places, and the growth of Uncle Fall's laboratory -- which he named Y-Tech as a tribute to Edwin and Julian both -- showed Julian that new life can grow even in the dead of winter.

The events of his childhood, later clarified in his adulthood, instilled in Arctis a deep need to right wrongs. As a result, Arctis found himself using his abilities to fight crime the moment the opportunity presented itself, and has never looked back.

Later, after the death of Geyser, Arctis and Haste teamed up to form Midnight Vigil. Under Midnight Vigil's watch, the heroes of New Saxton could fight to protect not just the citizens of New Saxton, but one another.