As a child, Jen Zheng wanted for nothing. Her father was an influential businessman, as his father had been. As she had everything she wanted, she became curious about the things she did not have, which resulted in her developing something of a kleptomaniac phase. The things she stole were frequently worthless in comparison to the things that she already had. She had fine clothes, so she stole cheaper clothes. She had expensive food, so she stole cheap food. This behavior greatly embarrassed her family, who subsequently drilled into her the absolute certainty that stealing was wrong. As a result, she stopped stealing things, but she never quite lost that obsessive drive to seize the things she did not possess. Instead, she simply channeled that drive into healthier pursuits.

As she grew up, she discovered increasingly questionable behavior from her parents. She never saw them steal, but they seemed to always manage to twist things such that they ended up with the possessions of others, or held others under their sway. When she learned they kept the maid's documentation locked up in the vase so they could control her, she remembered the thrill of going places she wasn't allowed and taking things that didn't belong to her. She decided that she could use those skills for good. When she broke into her parent's safe and retrieved those documents, she found many other questionable things. It was then that she began to understand her family's connections to the Coalition and the crime in Bastion City.

The more she learned, the more she wanted to learn, and each time she stole something and returned it to its rightful place, she felt like she was returning balance to an unbalanced world. Unfortunately, Jen's crusade could not last forever. While a capable thief, she was not an expert. She was soon killed by the Coalition in the middle of such an attempt.

When she went to pass on to the world beyond, she found herself tethered to the land of the living. While other ghosts in the lands of the dead had things that tied them there, Jen felt that she had done all she was meant to do, and she had given her life supporting what she believed in. The world beyond, to Jen, was the new unknown, and she struggled to slip her bonds to discover it, to no avail. While trapped in this state, she met Glyph, who was temporarily suspended between life and death herself, and they both schemed to break free. Just when it seemed that she might succeed, Jen's final wish was stolen from her.

She awoke to find herself in the middle of a ritual in the Black Thorn Academy. Her parents could not bear to let her rest, so they had pulled in favors with the Coalition and the Baroness to return her to life.

Now trapped between life and death, Jen hears the whispers and songs of the dead at all times. From a young age, she had loved to sing, but Jen's songs come from the soul, and hers pulls her to the world beyond. When she sings, her voice bridges the gap between the worlds, and the powers of death bleed across the veil. She stands in the gap, coveting the ability to pass on, while she struggles to steal balance from an unbalanced world.

Later, she and Glyph would teamed up with Liana LeRoux to form the Guardians at the Gate to protect the mortal world from the strange things that lurk beyond.