Wade Solomon was talked down to all his life. A slow thinker, Wade's peers viewed him as stupid, but Wade had a powerful intellect -- slow, but powerful. He tried to prove himself at first, but even when he would build something that would surpass the work of those his age, he was accused of cheating, or, at best, being an idiot savant. When he'd do well on tests, he'd be viewed with suspicion, until he started answering questions deliberately wrong to get low scores. Over the years, that fostered in him a deep-seated resentment, which slowly turned to rage. Things started to change for Wade as he began to take an interest in football. He found the rules and tactics fascinating, but those around him didn't see the complexity within it and didn't discourage him from pursuing it. And so, he began to play. When he did, he finally began to win the respect he deserved. After graduation, he got a football scholarship to Bastion U and had a chance of going pro. Eager to get out of the small town he grew up in, Wade believed the lies about Bastion City and the superhero that protected it. Things were turning around, and Wade finally had a chance to live in one of the best cities as he pursued his chance at true greatness.

All that changed when Wade met Sphere.

During college, Wade took a job at Metfort Chemical. While his job was largely menial, Wade spent his spare time learning as much as he could. On an otherwise uneventful day, a van smashed through the reception area and began careening around the building, trying to escape Sphere. Having long idolized Sphere, Wade was eager to see this group of evil-doers defeated, but Wade was quickly disillusioned. Sphere fought the bank robbers with a complete disregard for the Metfort employees, a great number of which received at least minor injuries as a result. When the criminals in the van showed signs of potential escape, Sphere blanketed the area in explosions, detonating a number of vats containing experimental chemicals. The air ionized, electricity began to arc, and Wade was electrocuted.

Wade did not stay dead for long, as arcs of electricity flew out of the wall and hit him, restarting his heart, then again, stopping it. At the hospital, arcs of electricity flew from the sockets and the machines and hit him over and over. In constant pain, surrounded by doctors who were struggling to keep him alive and not particularly interested in a "dumb jock's" input, a fire reignited within Wade. Once he got out of the hospital, Wade built a number of devices to help him survive and manage his condition, but no matter where he went, he attracted electricity. He ultimately learned to channel this energy into destructive bursts, but his hatred for Sphere and the delusions of society drove him to use his newfound power for destruction.

Currently he runs his own game in Bastion City -- or hires himself out to other villains as "dumb muscle" -- so he can demonstrate the fakeness of Bastion City and its false-savior.

Wade will never go pro, but he's making a comeback, and he's going to be a star.
