Ben Burgess was a Detective at the Bastion City Police Department when a string of deaths terrorized Bastion City, long considered one of the safest cities in the nation. The first body was found badly mauled, as though by a wild animal. Soon others began to appear, often in places that made no sense for an animal. Bystanders reported a snarling but articulate culprit, apparently made out of white marble, who possessed vicious talons and fangs. The papers dubbed the killer "The Fury", and The Fury Killings made all the headlines as the BPD attempted to track down the culprit. The few times officers managed to engage the killer, she got away via luck that defied all belief or reason, while hurling invectives at them and passerbys.

It was Burgess who noticed a peculiar pattern to the killings that did not befit the rampaging monster the Fury seemed to be. This realization let him begin to form connections between the victims. While tracing that pattern he came upon a report of a young woman arriving at the morgue, dead, and then getting up and walking out, in what the coroner described as 'a miracle.'. Tracing her movements, Burgess discovered that Liana LeRoux was the Fury Killer, and even managed to arrest her.

The culprit would later be freed and her crimes strangely forgotten by the populace and the legal system, and would even come to be recognized by some as a hero. These events only emphasized in Burgess the need for law and order and actual process, not rule by the whim of vigilantes.

Burgess' work capturing the Fury secured his place in the Bastion Police Department, even once all memory of the Fury faded from public consciousness, and the strange circumstances surrounding the Fury made Burgess more determined than ever to protect the people of Bastion City from the weird things that existed outside of public consciousness.

He's not above working with other heroes -- even the Fury -- but while the others are out in the spotlight, Burgess spends his time quietly investigating and doing legitimate police-work. He often finds himself chasing down the same villains as heroes, and he helps where he can, sometimes overtly, sometimes discretely. As much as he would prefer a world where the BPD was enough to protect the citizens of Bastion, he'd rather keep people safe than be a purist. Besides, there are plenty of police in Bastion City that belong behind bars themselves.

Later on, Burgess would join Division X and use his familiarity and care for the law to liaise with local and international law enforcement and keep the other members of Division X from going too far off the rails in their pursuit for the many unusual threats that lurk in the dark.