With some pushing from the Baroness, Brother Mathis and Brother LeRoux discovered a ritual that granted power over fate itself. Brother Mathis was unable to complete the ritual for himself, but Brother LeRoux had the necessary prerequisites. Brother Mathis drummed up support for the ritual in the Black Thorn Academy, pitching it as a way for the Academy to bring balance to fate, in addition to studying and recovering several lost magical techniques.

In order to complete the ritual, Brother LeRoux sacrificed his twin sister, Liana LeRoux. At the culmination of the ritual, Brother LeRoux's tattoo became infused with power over fate, which was to be used to repair the damage that had been done to the world and realign it with the will of the Fates. The ritual also gifted Brother LeRoux with a servant to enforce this will. The ritual restored Liana's body to health, but what arose from the ritual circle was not Liana, but a spirit of vengeance beholden to the Fates. There was no sign of Liana, who seemed to be completely gone, save when the spirit was dormant.

Brother LeRoux, however, did not uphold his end of the deal. He took the name Doomsayer, and used the power he had gained to ruin the lives of those he encountered, without any regard to the will of the Fates or the agreements that he had made as part of the binding ritual. He sent the spirit of vengeance to kill those that displeased him. The papers picked up on the string of murders, dubbing them the Fury Killings, leading the spirit to be called "The Fury." But the Fury wasn't summoned to be a mere executioner, and Doomsayer's sway over her began to diminish. As it did, Liana became conscious more and more frequently.

Now, Doomsayer, annoyed at losing control of such a powerful spirit, as well as his sister, periodically seeks out Liana, attempting to regain his spell over the both of them. Liana has no interest in returning to their previous arrangement, but nevertheless has difficulty accepting what her brother has become. Or rather, she has difficulty accepting what he has always been.

Meanwhile, Doomsayer travels the world, twisting the fates of those he encounters toward darkness and calamity for his own amusement. He turns lies and fears into probable futures. He takes the form of archetypes or roles tied to people's emotional baggage and uses those roles to ruin them. He believes that the Fates are powerless to stop him, but the Fates are not so easily cheated, and even at the darkest times for those in Doomsayer's thrall, glimpses of their will shine through.