Glyph foresaw a breach at the boundary between worlds, and the Guardians at the Gate rushed out to stop whatever monster was coming through. When they arrived, they found a burning building, but soon a woman ran out, appearing terrified of the fire, and also of them. By her appearance, they thought she might be Amish at first. The woman spoke in an Irish accent, seeming lost and confused. She could not remember where she was or how she had arrived there. When asked the year, she replied "1857." She identified herself as Roisin O'Ciardha. The woman appeared lost and frightened, so they decided to look after her until they found a place for her to stay and could figure out what was going on. The only other clue was a dark mark around the woman's right ankle, which resembled a bruise, but was darker in color than a bruise would be.

Roisin, being an "early to bed, early to rise" type, went to bed as soon as they had made arrangements for her, and soon the smoke detector began to sound. They rushed in to find Roisin in bed, engulfed in flames, and apparently having a nightmare. They managed to wake her up and put out the fire, then they moved her to safer arrangements, and kept a closer watch on her after that. Roisin insisted on cooking and cleaning for them, and seemed to regard them a bit as wayward children, despite seeming about the same age. As more of her memories returned, Roisin explained that she and her husband had fled from the famine in Ireland after the death of their child, and had come to America in the hope of finding work and food. They faced open hostility from the strongly-nativist locals, and at one point an angry mob badly beat her husband and burned their house down. Even before that Roisin had frequently relied on the church to get by, but after her husband was injured, she was forced to work 16 hour days as a seamstress in order to make ends meet, while also tending to her bed-ridden husband and her two sons.

The constant work had begun to drag her down and cloud her mind when she'd found an invitation to a bazaar. She had no money to spend, but hoped that merchants there might need a dressmaker, which would be higher pay and lower hours. What she found there, she refused to describe, but Glyph quickly realized that Roisin was describing the Midnight Bazaar. She'd refused any dealings with the merchants there, and had gone for a walk off the courtyard grounds, where there was a path she could follow. She walked for a long time to clear her head, and turned back to the bazaar to head back home. Just off the path she saw a very tempting fruit that she tried to ignore, but couldn't. She reached out for it, careful to keep her foot on the path, but stumbled. Before she knew it, she had eaten 3 of the strange fruits, and when she looked behind her, the path was gone.

She tried to run back, but branches and brambles tore at her skin and dress, and no matter where she looked, she could find no indications of the way back. She said that the fruit did something to change her, but she wouldn't elaborate. When asked for more information, it became clear that she could remember very little of what came after, and that she refused to speak about some of the things she could remember. She also became heartbroken as she realized that her husband and children were dead by now, as well as everyone else she had ever known. She blamed herself and became inconsolable with guilt, and they were unable to get much more information out of her then, or later, about her time before she they found her, other than to say that she was in Faerie. She eventually remembered and relayed a time when the Sidhe gathered together for games, and one of them had bid her against a sword of some type. When the game had ended in a draw, her bonds were loosed, and she had flown away.

As they spent more time with her, they continued to see bursts of heat and outright fire come from her, and they worked on helping her to control these abilities. Liana also noticed that Roisin's temperament would often change at these times from her normally demure, kind disposition to one that seemed enraged and almost predatory. Liana thought at first that Roisin might be possessed, but Roisin seemed to always remember these incidents, and was always deeply apologetic and abjectly mortified by them. 

Roisin had difficulty reconciling her previous life in 1857, her time in Faerie, and the modern world, but Liana was able to get her involved in a local church, where she began to volunteer, feeding the poor and homeless. She also became able to control her powers, but she hated using them. When the Guardians at the Gate needed her, Roisin stepped up and used her considerable heat-generation ability to help them, and they were shocked to discover that Roisin's flames can mend wounds as well. Deeply religious, Roisin felt guilty using her abilities, fearing that they would lead her away from God, but also felt obligated to help those in need, which sometimes required that she not hold back. She once confessed that she felt that despite all the time that had passed since she stepped off the path all those years ago, that she had never found her way back.

Roisin never warmed to modern clothing styles, and continues to wear simple dresses, even when on patrol. While she clearly has much to learn, there is much she can teach the others as well. She spends most of her free time volunteering at the church and trying to find her way back to some semblance of sanity, or at least a world that makes some sort of sense, but it has been so long that she doesn't remember what that feels like anymore.
