The Friday Detective Agency is a bit of a local legend in Bastion City. It's said that it opened in 1929 and was run by a very strange woman called "Friday" for a time, before it went dark. Periodically, it is said, it would reopen, each time run by a peculiar woman with the same name, and always keeping very odd hours. In recent years, the Agency has reopened, and the proprietor is as weird as the stories suggest. No public records exist of any of the staff at the Agency, and many clients report interacting with Agency staff that other clients have never seen. Friday has worked with the Bastion Police Department on several occasions, and she almost always seems to show up in time to stop Grandfather from meddling with the timeline in Bastion City. 

She first appeared on the radar of other heroes when she travelled to New Saxton and approached Arctis, Haste, and Geyser, warning them about Grandfather interfering in the timeline, and explaining how to stop him. While she was greatly informative on the subject of Grandfather, she had very little interest in talking about much of anything else, including herself. She instructed them to destroy Grandfather's clock, which was hidden somewhere nearby. Geyser saw her channel blasts of water, Arctis observed her manipulating ice, and Haste reported that she could move through time with him. She was a powerful ally until Geyser turned up dead, with all available evidence indicating that she had killed him.

With the others reeling over this betrayal, Friday single-handedly smashed Grandfather's clock and ended his meddling in the timeline. As they attempted to understand her actions and nature, Arctis and Haste came to believe that "Friday" was simply a disguise for REAPER 3, a murderous machine from the future. REAPER 3 could imitate the appearance of other people, and even copy their powers. Grandfather had once unleashed REAPER 3 on Sphere, with considerable collateral damage to Bastion City. Determined to avenge Geyser and stop her evil from spreading, they tracked Friday to the Friday Detective Agency and attempted to defeat her. In the fight, Arctis was nearly killed. Haste did his best to fight her off and get Geyser to safety, but was nearly taken down as well. As Friday battled Haste, however, she seemed to malfunction. At first she seemed to fuse with the concrete floor of the basement, then she slowly turned to stone.

That statue remained there for many years, but after a time the Friday Detective Agency opened its doors once again. Its current iteration is as strange as ever. Each customer who meets Friday reports her a bit differently, but most report her cold, dead stare and aloof demeanor. Some report her demanding exorbitant rates for simple tasks, while others swear that she takes impossible jobs for almost nothing.

Word on the street is that Friday can be hired for just about anything. She doesn't seem to care what the job is, as long as she has something to do. She doesn't seem to value money, or power, or anything else, and she doesn't seem to have any scruples, either. As far as anyone has been able to tell, Friday's interests consist exclusively of doing odd jobs and stopping Grandfather from manipulating the timeline.

When she works with other heroes, she doesn't seem particularly interested in their ideals, goals, or motives. On the contrary, she seems completely cold-blooded, and generally disinterested in hiding that fact. However, good help is hard to find. Friday usually does what she's told, and most heroes don't want to think about what Friday will do if she's left idle.


Later on, as Friday continued to consult on Burgess' cases, she began to follow him. When Carnaval approached Burgess about joining Division X, he was extremely specific that Friday learn nothing about it, but refused to say why. He would only say that she's extremely dangerous. However, they would both discover that keeping secrets from Friday is easier said than done. After Friday repeatedly infiltrated the Division X facility and posed as various workers, Carnaval decided it was more dangerous to exclude her than it was to let her join the team. Now, in addition to her inconsistent work as a detective, she travels with Division X, helping them deal with the strange events that often plague the people of the world. For her part, Friday mostly follows Carnaval's orders, but he and the other members of Division X have learned to be very specific about who Friday is and isn't allowed to harm.