According to Claudia Ellington, some are meant to lead and others are meant to follow. Some to have, and some not to have. Some people are simply more important than others. This is the natural order, and has always been the way of things, and Claudia was meant to lead. Descended from a family of upper class businessmen, Claudia was destined for an Ivy League college and a career in law, at least according to her parents, but she had other plans. Avoiding her controlling parents' wishes, she quietly set aside money from her trust fund and enrolled in Bastion University, where she could chart her own course in one of the most influential cities in the country. There she intended to rise to the top, and soon she received an invitation from one of the city's most powerful secret societies: The Black Thorn Academy.

Claudia had always been a bit callous to those she considered beneath her, which was nearly everyone, and the Black Thorn Academy is careful to slowly desensitize new recruits. First, she had to clean up after animal sacrifices, until that was normal, then to assist. Once she'd become accustomed to that, she had to assist in her first willing human sacrifice. A dying man promised money for his wife and kids. In time this too became normal. And, of course, there were sometimes the occasional unwilling human sacrifice. Criminals and other undesirables who had to die for the greater good. And so she became accustomed to that as well.

Within the Academy, she quickly achieved the rank of Initiate and quickly developed as a talented ritualist. She showed a particular aptitude for a type of symbolic magic rarely practiced any longer, which primarily used runes and symbols to affect the world. The Brothers and Sisters of the Academy took note of her potential, and she assisted in many important rituals. Claudia had never been squeamish about how leaders achieved success or who they had to step on along the way, so the Black Thorn Academy was simply the natural order of things, and Claudia was moving up within its ranks.

Due to her unique skillset, Claudia was selected by Brother Mathis to assist in the most ambitious ritual the Academy had seen in many years, giving Claudia excellent prospects for moving up in the organization, but also to change the world. Through her work, the Academy would become a force for order in the world. However, Claudia had been sold a lie. Brother LeRoux had no intention of keeping up his end of the bargain. He instead used his powers to sow chaos. Worse, from Claudia's perspective, Brother Mathis never intended for him to, and had tapped the considerable resources of the Academy to assist Brother LeRoux purely for his own gain.

With the subsequent rise in influence of Brother Mathis and Brother LeRoux, the Academy took a darker turn. Claudia had never objected to bending the rules for personal benefit as those who lead have a greater claim to the spoils, but Brother Mathis and Brother LeRoux didn't simply bend the rules. They didn't even break them. They disregarded them altogether. They took what they wanted for themselves, and that was it, with no regard to the natural order, to the Academy, or anything else. What she saw in them did not resemble her views on the natural order. The other Brothers and Sisters fell silent in their objections, and so the Black Thorn Academy adopted an entirely parasitic relationship with the city, with magic, and with the worlds beyond. No longer content with discovering or learning magic, the Academy became focused only on material wealth and power.

To Claudia, therefore, the Academy had become a parasite. she did not have many scruples, but she had a few: Parasites are not leaders - Leaders should lead. Power is a means, not an end. The natural order must be maintained. The excesses of leaders are justified only in their service to order. Order requires balance. And being a leader is more than having a rank.

Accepting that she might never rise above the rank of Initiate, Claudia set out to combat the excesses of the Academy by working through Brother Mathis' agents in the city, undermining their work or disappearing them altogether. Claudia's magic had always been distinctive, however, and through she tried to be careful, her markings were soon detected. The news labeled her a vigilante and gave her the name "Glyph," while the Black Thorn Academy reacted more severely, with Brother Mathis ordering her immediate execution.

She was quickly found by Brother Stevens who "unfortunately misunderstood" Brother Mathis' instruction and took her as an apprentice instead. Most members of the Academy are cautious enough not to risk hunting down the apprentice of Brother Stevens. However, some still pursue her, and setting foot on the Academy grounds without Brother Stevens at her side remains a death sentence. While Brother Stevens is ruthless and unreadable, he seems to share Claudia's interest in both the natural order and undoing the influence of Brother Mathis and Brother LeRoux. He likewise seems quite content to let Claudia do the heavy lifting.

And so Glyph stalks the streets of Bastion City, hellbent on restoring the balance at any cost.

Later, while trapped in a state between life and death, Glyph meets the ghost of Jen Zheng, who forces Glyph to promise to let her pass to the world beyond. Events beyond both of their control lead to Glyph being restored to health, and left Jen permanently bound to the world of the living. They band together to undo the damage to the natural order and enlist Liana LeRoux to their cause. Together, the three of them form the Guardians at the Gate.