There's an urban legend about a kindly old man who appears before great events or terrible calamities. He walks with a cane and carries a peculiar gold pocketwatch. Heroes know the man as "Grandfather," and first became aware of him after he tried to arrange for the death of Sphere. As far as anyone knows, there are only two people who know who Grandfather was before he began to meddle with the past. One is Grandfather himself. The other is Friday, the strange woman who runs Friday's Detective Agency. Neither are particularly forthcoming.

To the best of anyone's knowledge, Grandfather's story began in a timeline called Apocalypse 4. He was already fully capable of time-travel at this point, and he was reviewing the incidents that lead to the war between the humans and the Draconic Imperium, which effectively destroyed both factions. At that point he decided that the easiest way to avert the crisis was to travel into the past and assassinate Sphere. Although Sphere ultimately survived the attempt, the timeline was nevertheless altered, and Grandfather disappeared for a time.

In the present day, Grandfather continues to meddle in the timeline, where his activities are most strongly opposed by Friday. It was Friday that explained Grandfather's modus operandi to the other heroes. Likewise, it was Friday that revealed to them that Grandfather never operates without an old grandfather clock -- the Time Keeper -- hidden nearby, made of strange materials and glowing with an eerie futuristic light. Without it, he is unable to manipulate the timeline. It's rare to see a group of heroes fighting Grandfather without Friday around, and she has destroyed the Time Keeper many times herself.

While his meddling in the timeline has led to many terrible events, Grandfather never seems particularly malicious or interested in fighting. He avoids the heroes the best he can, and it seems like his heart is never really in the fights he is forced to fight. When attacked, he often simply disappears, only to reappear later and resume his efforts, and he has never shown more than a kindly frustration with the heroes who keep destroying the clock he spends so much time rebuilding.          

Stranger still, he seems to be genuinely fond of Friday, despite their constant battles. He has has been spotted many times walking by Friday's Detective Agency, where he stops to smile warmly before moving on. Friday is a much harder read, but she's rumored to be violently protective of the old man in the rare case where his existence is actually threatened.