The birth of Taiwo and his twin brother Kehinde was seen as a special boon to their family. Always close, the brothers tended to get into trouble, usually at Taiwo's instigation. Their father, Dr. Folarin Soyinka, generally could rein them in, but over time, he spent more and more time at work in the city. By the time they moved to Paris, when the twins were 12, Dr. Soyinka was away more often than not.

Several years later, while exploring an abandoned building, Taiwo, Kehinde, and their sister Idowu attracted the attention of some angry drug-users, who tried to run them off. As they fled, the floor gave out, and Kehinda and Idowu fell through the floor. Idowu pulled through with a bad sprain, but Kehinde was killed in the fall.

Where the birth of twins had been regarded among the highest blessings, the death of one was viewed as a curse. Taiwo's mother blamed Taiwo for always getting the others into trouble. His father was more understanding, but still perpetually preoccupied with work. His father's frequent absence had been causing tension with his mother for some time, but Taiwo was largely unaware of this. The stress of his brother's death caused the situation to boil over, and soon his mother left Paris with Taiwo's other siblings. Taiwo ultimately came to blame himself for this.

When his father's work called him to the United States, Taiwo refused to accompany him. His father set him up to live with his aunt and uncle, who lived in London. They kept in touch intermittently for a time, but after a time, his father disappeared. Taiwo blamed himself for this as well, beginning to drink heavily. He eventually became a writer, later moving to the US to work on scripts for movies and film. While there, the situation fell through due to his drinking and he became homeless in New Saxton for a time, where he witnessed the city's seedy underbelly up close. He heard a few idle rumors about his father during his time there.

Later, after getting clean, he goes back to writing, at which point he began to investigate his father's disappearance. He quickly became disillusioned about finding out what happened to his father, but soon found himself increasingly followed by people in suits that appeared to be government agents. This spurred him to investigating further, after which he found one of his father's old labs, which was somehow still operational. There he found a large device constructed by his father, but nothing in the lab that would help him track down what had become of him. He ultimately decided the device might make a good inspiration for a book and began trying to understand its workings. The machine was damaged, but he was ultimately able to repair it. He was not able to activate it, however, due to a loose wire within the device. He stepped into the machine to fix the wire, and the device activated with him trapped inside.

Afterwards, Taiwo found the flow of time in the world around him shifting erratically. He tried to adjust the device to undo whatever it had done, and with some effort he seemed to return to normal. As he headed back home, however, he discovers that he can cause the world to slow around him. The next day he returned to the lab, only to discover that the device no longer functioned.

Soon Haste found himself using his new-found abilities to protect the citizens of New Saxton, always playing catch-up with his next writing deadline.

After the death of Geyser, Haste teams up with Arctis to form Midnight Vigil, ultimately being joined by Sidewinder and Wayfarer.