Originally hired as a computer specialist for Y-Tech Labs, Gol Karimi quickly gained influence in the organization due to her impressive problem-solving capabilities and uncanny ability to anticipate needs within Y-Tech. In addition to maintaining the computer systems and security, Gol kept all the moving parts of Y-Tech interacting cleanly, and would frequently show up with solutions to problems that were still developing. Gol wasn't present during the particle accelerator accident that gave Emma Owston her powers, but by the time Dr. Falls picked up a phone to call her in, she was already on her way.

After that incident and the resulting departures and layoffs, Gol remained on staff to keep what remained of the facility running smoothly and worked to help Emma understand her new-found abilities. When Emma took up the mantle of hero and became Push, Gol remained in a support role, helping Emma with technology that she needed and getting her out of a variety of situations. Gol's aptitude for showing up at the perfect moment with mundane -- but brilliant -- solutions quickly exceeded any conventional explanations as far as Emma was concerned. She insisted that Dr. Falls look into the matter, and he soon concluded that Gol had been manifesting a form of latent telepathy since childhood that she had never been aware of. After she had worked so diligently to help Emma understand her powers, Emma felt obligated to return the favor, and with Dr. Falls' help, helped Gol to develop awareness and control over natural abilities.

Gol possesses a unique ability to form and manipulate psychic networks. After she learned to control her power, Push would often hear Gol's voice guiding her through difficult situations and helping her fight, but criminals paid no attention to the quiet woman in street clothes standing off in the distance. Eventually she took the name Node and began to assist Push in a more official manner, but Node is less of a crime-fighter than a crime-stopper. Deeply empathetic, Node can never see criminals merely as criminals, but always senses some of their situations and motivations. She rarely "fights" petty crime, preferring to mentally communicate with the would-be criminals and find ways to help them resolve their situation instead. Even when dealing with more determined, violent, or hardened villains dedicated to causing harm, Gol usually tries to use her telepathic and empathic abilities to try to emotionally wear the person down rather than harming them, but she is quite capable of inflicting mental pain as well. While she is deeply empathetic, she is not weak, and she is more than capable of harming adversaries that cannot be deterred, no matter how much she may feel for them.

Initially acting mostly as a sidekick to Push, Node quickly outgrew the role, and after the formation of Bulwark, she would soon find herself acting as its unofficial leader.
