Joe Varano joined the military to uphold the country's ideals and help bring peace and freedom to the world. He was a dedicated soldier. Skilled, but not especially noteworthy. It was his sense of duty that led him to volunteer for a secret military project. The soldiers of the project were given serums derived from alien technology. When Joe joined, there were 5 other volunteers, each designated by a number. He never encountered Test Subjects 1 or 2 and they were never spoken of. Soon Joe would discover why. As the number of test subjects continued to whittle down, Joe recognized he might never leave the X51 project alive, but he believed in dedicating his life to something greater than himself. Perhaps, in Joe, they would create the first supersoldier, helping to shepherd the world toward peace. If not, he could at least help them along the way.

Doctor Vargha called Joe's reaction to the serum "promising". He began to develop superhuman speed and strength with no apparent side effects. Even more promisingly, his abilities began to persist longer and longer after each dose, until he ultimately maintained most of his abilities without taking the serum at all. At that point, the X51 project seemed like a massive success. General Janson gave Joe the callsign "Peacekeeper", and sent him on a few missions to test out his performance. Joe performed above expectations. Over time, however, his extra abilities seemed to take a toll on his system, so the scientists continued to try to perfect the serum. There were some indications that the negative effects were increasing over time, so they adjusted Joe's serum and tried it on Test Subject 8, who barely lived long enough for Joe to meet. They attempted a very different variation in the serum for Test Subject 9, Rick Durham, but a mishap in the lab disrupted that experiment, although it delivered promising results of a very different kind.

Durham was given the callsign "Sphere", and for a time, Peacekeeper and Sphere worked together handling particularly sensitive or dangerous missions. The wear on Joe's body continued, however, until the doctors decided to cut off Joe's usage of the serum unless absolutely necessary, thinking it would help him stabilize. To an extent, it did. Without the extra serum in his body, Joe's health began to improve, and he continued working with Sphere on the nation's most important military operations. However, over time, Joe's weariness continued to increase. Even without taking any of the serum, the effects persisted in his body, wearing him down at an abnormally high rate.

Ultimately, General Janson was forced to remove him from active duty, over Joe's objections. While Joe remained combat-capable, it had become clear that the serum was slowly killing him, even though he was no longer taking it. The military's scientists were unable to do much to improve Joe's condition, so Janson leaned on his contacts and arranged a meeting with Dr. Falls of Y-Tech Labs, who had a reputation for solving unsolvable problems. Dr. Falls was ultimately able to craft a serum for Joe that suppressed the effects of the X51 serum and drastically improved his health, at the cost of suppressing his superhuman abilities. Even Y-Tech's serum was unlikely to fully resolve Joe's symptoms, and there was always a decent chance that the X51 serum would ultimately kill him. Still, though, Joe had a chance at a mostly normal life, as long as he continued to take the Y-Tech serum. Whenever he would miss a dose, his veins would turn green, and he'd get fast and strong, but his health would begin to deteriorate.

General Janson refused to let Joe return to duty, and so Joe's story would have ended if not for the meddlings of Carnaval, who had begun to investigate Project X51 after Sphere's fall from grace. He was able to track down Joe and learn about his serum. After learning of Joe's situation, Carnaval asked for Joe's help in taking down a mobster that was terrorizing Bastion City. Finally in a position where he could do some good, Joe decided to stop taking his medicine briefly to help protect Bastion City. Later, when Carnaval headed to Paradise Isle on a secret operation, he asked Joe to come along, and Joe agreed. After working together with Joe to resolve the situation, Carnaval asked Joe to consider teaming up with him to help protect the people of the United States and the world at large from the sinister threats that await them in the shadows. Joe agreed, and together they formed Division X. Through their contacts in the military, with particular help from General Janson, they were able to move Division X to quasi-official status.

Joe can't stay off his meds for long, but he's determined to do some good in the world, no matter the cost.
