A student at Bastion U pursuing physics, Emma Owston took an internship at Y-Tech Labs. When a freak accident caused Y-Tech's particle accelerator to explode, Emma was caught in the blast radius. She soon found herself with a power beyond her understanding that she could not safely wield. Dr. Falls and Gol Karimi worked tirelessly to help Emma understand her new state. The location of Y-Tech Labs, Valenville, was not as safe as Bastion City and as a result, Emma found herself drawn to do more with her abilities than participate in laboratory experiments. Soon she began to patrol the streets under the name "Push."

To most heroes, Push appears to be a simple telekinetic who has not fully mastered her powers, however the truth is a great deal more complex. Push can convert vibrations and sound waves into waves of kinetic energy that alter the acceleration of objects. As her ability does not depend on the strength of her will or mind, but exploits the vibrations that surround her at all times, Push faces unusual difficulties for a hero. Unlike most heroes, Push sees no need to improve her raw power, and she spends her time focused on keeping her abilities in check. While her fear of what she is capable of does not overpower her, she sees little value in capturing criminals if that also means inadvertently destroying apartment buildings with a stray converted wave.

In her personal life, Emma finds herself increasingly bored with her classes at Bastion U. In class, the magic that drew her to physics in the first place is continuously replaced with dull, dry paperwork. Being able to witness the complexities of physics in real time has not helped this boredom, which has started to affect her grades. Not used to struggling in class, Push has become insecure about her own intellectual capabilities, even as she finds herself increasingly correcting the math of the brilliant Dr. Falls.

Often finding herself in situations where it is highly difficult to safely use her powers, Push has frequently ended up in tight spots as a result. Many of those times, Gol would show up with whatever Push needed to get out of the situation. Each time, she claimed that she just happened to be in the area, causing Push suspect that Gol had powers of her own. Later tests from Dr. Falls revealed that Gol was, in fact, a latent telepath. While Node, as she would later call herself, rarely patrols, it would be unwise for the criminals of Valenville to assume that Push is ever alone. With Node helping Push see the big picture and keeping her from from causing undue damage to the city, Push stands a chance of making Valenville as safe as Bastion City.

After working alongside Node for a time, Push and Node join forces with Forge and the trio adopt the name "Bulwark." Working out of Y-Tech Labs with the help of Dr. Falls, they tirelessly endeavor to help those in need.