Rick Durham was always looking for a way to make it big. In the Army, when he heard of a top secret supersoldier project, he jumped at the opportunity. The soldiers were given serums derived from alien technology, and the project had a high fatality rate. During an early test, Durham was given an alien artifact that did not seem to function to see if his serum would allow him to interact with it. It appeared dormant until he touched it to his chest over his heart, at which point it burrowed into his skin.
 
By the time the doctors arrived, it was too late. When they examined him, the orb had consumed his heart entirely, but to their surprise, he wasn't dead. He orb kept him alive without issue. Afterwards they discovered that Durham could manifest a forcefield like the one on the alien ship. Durham was given the designation "Sphere" due to the fact that his forcefield always manifested as a sphere of varying size. Durham learned to control the way this field interacted with the world around him in a way that made him a highly effective and unusual soldier.                        

Political considerations often lead command to parade Sphere around for publicity, and Durham spent a lot of time in the spotlight in Bastion City when he wasn't on mission. There he began fighting crime in Bastion City in between operations. His superiors found him difficult to work with, so he spent more and more time in Bastion City, until he was ultimately dubbed the "Guardian of Bastion" and called to action only on special missions. He was an inspiration to Bastion City for many years, although there were grumblings that he was needlessly reckless and carelessly endangered others.

A strange, elderly man going by the name of Grandfather appeared in Bastion City one day, attempting to turn the city against Sphere. When he failed, he reappeared with a shapeshifting machine from the future named REAPER 3. It mercilessly hunted Sphere, duplicating his powers and using them against him. In order to beat the machine, Sphere lured it into the Wellington Complex, which had been slated for detonation. He distracted REAPER 3 and detonated the building on top of them both. Sphere, who was prepared, was hurt, but survived, but no trace of REAPER 3 was ever recovered from the building.

The unscheduled demolition of the Wellington Complex was not without its costs, however. Several innocents were killed, and their deaths pierced the bubble of Sphere's saintly image in Bastion City. Hunted by the Bastion Police Department, facing prosecution, and having the whole city against him forced Sphere into hiding for a time. Without Sphere patrolling the streets, other heroes took up the mantle. Eventually, Sphere was able to rehabilitate his image and return to fighting crime, but there are still those who say that Sphere only cares about what happens when the cameras are on.
