Initiate Ellington,

Again, I would encourage patience.  The Baroness prefers to act from the shadows, but is more than capable of more direct action.

If you engage her directly, don't make the mistake of underestimating her.  She has had several hundred years to hone her tactics and physical capabilities and a considerable drive to do so.

Cordially,
Brother Stevens




LIBRARY INTAKE REQUEST

FORMAT: Manuscript
Submitted by: Brother Stevens
Priority: High
Additional information:
    Hand-written journals in Latin and at least one other language which appear to be the journals of Baroness Bogozi.
    Request translation of notated sections.




Dear Brother Stevens,

As requested, I have analyzed the journals you have provided to me. They were badly damaged, and several sections appear incongruent with others. There is a considerable gap in time not adequately explained by the texts. Dating evidence was inconclusive. It is possible that she alternates between multiple journals, that she keeps an older journal with her at all times, or that she copied an older entry into a newer journal. However, given her purported predilection for misdirection, it is also possible that these are forged. Nevertheless, I would expect better forgeries from Baroness Bogozi, and barring additional evidence, I tentatively consider them genuine.

The text was difficult to make out, due to the damage to the manuscripts and the marked form of Hungarian she uses when she diverges from Latin. She seems unusually literate for the time period these writings would suggest.

I have resisted the urge to speculate on ambiguous lines, and so have provided here only the lines whose meanings I can ascertain with reasonable certainty. If I acquire additional clarity regarding the sections I have omitted here, I shall send you updates as necessary. As no information regarding the time period is provided, some of my translations may be somewhat anachronistic based on the timing of the composition of some of these entries, but the general meaning should still apply.

I have found these documents quite fascinating and would encourage you to deliver any additional findings to the library for my perusal.

Respectfully,
L


Excerpts from the damaged journals of Primor Zsejke Bogozi, alias the Baroness, translated to English from Hungarian and Latin.

---

Istvan broke my heart today. I finally told him how I feel, but he said he is committed to marrying Magdolna. His line's means are dwindling and needs this alliance to strengthen their holdings. It seems my family's name is not as strong as it once was. I tried to tell him that with love, such problems are easily overcome, but he said that I was naive, which he had always loved about me, but that he must think of his family now.

Naive.

I've decided to meet with that old peasant woman tomorrow. Daciana, I think her name was. We'll see if the rumors about her are true.

Naive.

Istvan will see.

---

The old woman's charm had a strange effect on Istvan. For a moment I worried that his mind was addled and that the potion was deceiving him, rather than helping him see the truth. His fondness for me felt true, but his confused disposition concerned me. When I tried to help him stay grounded, his mood soured. He called my family poor.

How dare he?

Still, I shouldn't have struck him.

---

There are only a few more months until the wedding, and Istvan won't see me now. How did I let things go so wrong? Daciana has said that she lacks the power I seek, but has directed me to one of the old estates near the forest. Daciana declined to travel with me for any price, calling the journey was unsafe. As a primor, I should be safe, so long as I sought an invitation via letter and informed others of my destination.

---

I can never speak of what I have seen.

I can never speak of what I have done.

God help me.

I'm so hungry.

---

Katelin has shown me how to shape others' perceptions. I never knew it could be this easy. Father's suspicions about that peasant boy simply passed from his mind. My enhanced understanding has allowed me to secure several profitable deals with Saxon merchants. Once Istvan sees that I am neither naive nor poor, he will come to his senses.

---

As Istvan still refuses to see me, I have sought out Magdolna. Her father is a reasonable man and has agreed to call off the wedding if she agrees. I can sow enough doubt in her mind to get Istvan to see the truth.

---

Istvan is inconsolable. I don't think he suspects me, but it kills me to see him like this. I never intended to hurt the girl. Perhaps it is for the best, though. Once he has grieved, he will see.

---

I don't know how he knew. He said the most horrid things to me. I hate that it came to this. I never meant to hurt him. Everything I did... Why couldn't he just remain silent? He broke my heart again today.

"Naive." How that word plagues my thoughts. Even with his death, it never left. After everything, I can still hear his voice.

Father knows. I can no longer guide his perceptions. I want to believe he will be reasonable, but I just hear Istvan's voice again.

"Naive."

Exceptions have been made before. It's time I had what's mine.

---

I've grown weary of my homeland. These modern peasants abandon our history and seek to plunder the wealth we have rightfully accumulated. They view our very titles as obstacles to their decadent ways. I admit that I have long desired to see London. I shall use the title 'Baroness'* while among the commoners there. It is an adequate enough translation and that term has been used for me here in the past. Those not swayed by my name will be swayed by coin.

I shall gravely miss the mountains.


* Translators note: The word I have translated 'Baroness' has additional connotations in the original Hungarian. It indicates that she holds the title in her own right, not merely as the wife or daughter of a Baron.

---

Long have I heard tales of this "Bastion City." A beacon of civilization! Pah, there are no civilized people. Even so, the asthetic of it calls to me. A city ruled by wealth that sees only what it wants to see should prove to be an adequate diversion, if nothing else.

I can simply buy access to the players there and guide them as I see fit.

---

What a fascinating city. As I suspected, its saintly reputation is an affectation. The city is ruled by a number of organizations that lurk in the shadows and rarely cooperate. Each can be persuaded to be more agreeable.

The Guild of Meha'Mon is a cult that worships money. It is quite delightful. I can openly buy influence with them and they simply see me as one of them. There's no guilt, or shame, or suspicion, just a simple admiration for an effective use of wealth. I find it hard to imagine a more magnificent organization. They don't even care that I'm manipulating them. They are truly a joy to work with.

The Coalition is a collection of business and criminal syndicates that control organized crime in the city. They trade in money, of course, but also buy and sell respect. Easy to steer to my ends.

The Keepers of the Coin I've heard only rumors of. I believe one of them may have made an attempt on my life recently. Perhaps I should have spared him. Nevertheless, I'm told they don't tend to get involved with the status quo, and I'll be the status quo before they even know what to make of me.

The Black Thorn Academy is an organization for the study of witchcraft that thinks a bit too highly of itself. Members of its ruling class call themselves "Brothers" and "Sisters" in a stunning display of self-delusion. It pretends to hold itself above the concerns of the waking world in pursuit of higher learning, but such ideals are at best situational, and situations change. If I can find a malleable mind with a more practical view of the world, the Academy should also be easy to shape to my desires.

Lastly, and this is the most exciting part of Bastion City, these societies do not get along! It takes very little effort to cause one to suspect another. Each is likewise dedicated to the false image of Bastion City as a beacon of civilization, so it is essentially trivial to manipulate them into conflict with one another, then step into the limelight where they will not pursue.

Each will deal with me to spite the others, and any missteps on my part can be passed off as malfeasance by another rival organization.

This city is magnificent, and I can see myself calling it home for ages to come.

---

As predicted, the Black Thorn Academy has quite a few members who are more interested in their prospects in the here and now than empty rituals put upon them by those too weak to seek power.

Even so, I could not have predicted Mathis and LeRoux. Each is imminently manipulable, and each has no scruples beyond what benefits them in any given moment. Even better, each thinks very highly of their own intellect. I could never have dreamed up a more wonderful pair of pawns than these.


---

I have built a web in Bastion City that even my friends should fear. There is nothing here that can escape it, nor can anything pass that is unknown to me.

I control the board and the endgame is in sight.

I pay all my debts, good and bad, and never forget a single one.

I only hope Brother Stevens lives to see the inexpressable depths of his failure.
