Liana LeRoux was born mere minutes before her twin brother, Morgan. In the mind of her parents, that made her the older sister, responsible for her brother. Growing up, little Morgan could do no wrong. Anytime his behavior was less than ideal, it was someone else's fault, frequently Liana's. It was his friends, his good nature making him easily to influence by bad people, or Liana's fault for not being a good sister to Morgan. Liana grew up hearing these things and believed them to the core of her being. Even as they got older, she always looked after Morgan, whom she loved deeply and trusted implicitly.

Morgan frequently hung out with the wrong crowd and got in over his head. He'd come to her for help with stories about how he was trying to get out, or he needed a driver for "just this one job." and Liana would drop everything. In one instance, an innocent guard was killed. Liana blamed herself. In another, a deal went wrong, and Liana was forced to shoot an angry drug dealer to save her brother. Liana blamed herself. She was relieved when Morgan began moving up the social ladder, hopeful that Morgan would finally be free of the negative influences that had hounded him in the past.

One night, Liana was abducted. She heard strange sounds and voices, and when the bag was removed from her head, she found herself surrounded by sinister-looking robed figures. From the proceedings, it was clear that she was going to be sacrificed by the Black Thorn Academy in some sort of dark ritual. When she looked up at the man leading the ritual, she was initially relieved to see Morgan, believing he had come to save her. That relief did not last. Morgan explained to her that she was to become the sacrifice that finally would turn his life around. That once she died, her body would become the vessel of a spirit of justice that would bring order to the world.

When the ritual was completed, Morgan was suffused with the power of destiny. Meanwhile, Liana's eyes turned jet-black, as did the blood from her wounds. Her canine teeth lengthened and sharpened. Her pale skin slowly faded to marble white, then her dark hair began to fade until it was the same color. Lastly, all of her clothing lost its hue until Liana seemed to be a fallen statue carved from marble, aside from her sinister eyes. The figure that stood up from the circle was not Liana, and it had no other thought beside serving the will of Morgan LeRoux. Morgan had only one task for the spirit: He directed it to kill.

The Bastion Police Department soon became aware of a string of strange murders, and Detectives Burgess and Gadhavi were assigned to the case, and Burgess would soon make several major breakthroughs. Once the papers caught wind of it, they were dubbed "The Fury Killings." Meanwhile, Morgan's control over the Fury began to slip. Originally, the Fury completely took over Liana, who had no life or will of her own. Over time, the Fury began to withdraw, relinquishing control to Liana, who had no memory of the events the Fury had partaken in. Even when the Fury was active, she became increasingly erratic. Morgan would give her a name, and the Fury would kill a hot dog vendor instead. Soon, the Fury murdered Morgan's chief lieutenant, unprovoked.

Burgess was finally able to arrest Liana. Before she could be convicted, however, the entire city seemed to collectively forget the Fury Killings. It was as though they had suddenly become an Urban Legend. The evidence against Liana was lost or corrupted, and Liana was set free. Morgan abandoned Liana to her new fate, but a rival from the Black Thorn Academy stepped in to help her understand the nature of her condition.

Now Liana struggles to come to terms with her new life and to keep the Fury from harming people, but the strangest things can summon the Fury: A broken promise, a broken shoelace, the snapping of a stray thread, betrayal, forsaking one's kin; broken bonds of any kind. Once awakened, the Fury glimpses random past misdeeds. She might silently curse a bystander, she might heap verbal abuse upon them, or seek to injure or kill them. As she transforms, her eyes turn black, and soon she begins to fade to marble white, including all her clothing, possessions, objects she's carrying, and even paint or blood. As she struggles to understand her new state, she travels the country, investigating the hidden secrets of the Fury and those that bind the Fury to her. She hopes to understand the Fury's purpose, and direct her away from the innocent and toward the guilty.

Later, the Guardians at the Gate is formed by a former member and a former victim of the Black Thorn Academy, who ultimately persuade Liana to join. There she uses her ability to direct the Fury's might against those who would upset the balance of the world.